# Plotting - Result Analysis

These scripts are responsible for evaluating the benchmark data. The results will either be shown in the terminal or the plots will be stored in the `~/dbms-live-patching/plot/reproduction` directory.

## Linux Kernel

The following steps should be executed using the ***unmodified*** Linux kernel.

```
# Inside the VM:
cd ~
./kernel-regular
sudo reboot
```

## Plot Directory

All plots will be stored in `~/dbms-live-patching/plots/reproduction`. The directory `~/dbms-live-patching/plots/paper` contains all plots from the paper, including additional ones referenced or mentioned therein. To compare the results of your reproduction pipeline with our plots, you can use the scripts in the `~/dbms-live-patching/plots` directory.

To start a web-server for easy comparison of charts, use the following commands:

```bash
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plots

# Starts a web-server (streamlit) for easy chart comparison
./run
```

This script starts a web-server (you may need to expose the port if running inside a VM) that allows you to compare our plots with those from your reproduction pipeline side-by-side.

## All Plots (Figure 1 and 5 - 10)

All *plots* can be generated by using a single script. However, the analysis for the latency breakdown and for table 2 must still be executed (see commands below).

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot
./setup
./do-all
```



## MariaDB - Teaser (Figure 1)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

./setup

./do-one-by-one
```

## MariaDB - OLTP Benchmarks (Figure 5)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-qps-time
```

### Additional - Bar Charts

```
./do-qps-bar
```



## MariaDB - OLAP Benchmarks (Figure 6)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-OTPC-ch-time
```

## MariaDB - Synchronization Time (Figure 7)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-TP-every-boxplot
```

## MariaDB - Latencies (Figure 8)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-OTPC-latencies
```

### Additional - Thread Pool Latencies

```
./do-TP-latencies
```

## Redis - Impact of database state on maximum query latency (Figure 9)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-redis-as-fork
```

## MariaDB/Redis - Impact of patch size on patch application time (Figure 10)

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/plot

# Setup was already performed
# ./setup

./do-patch-application
```

## Latency Breakdown (Table 2)

The results will be shown in the terminal.

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting/latency-breakdown
./new-as
./patch-application
./reach-q
./switch-as
```

## MariaDB - Thread Pool comparison: Priority-based quiescence (our novel approach) vs previous (Rommel et al. [2]) approach

The results will be shown in the terminal.

```
cd ~/dbms-live-patching/plotting
./evalute-comparison-script
```

[2] Florian Rommel, Christian Dietrich, Daniel Friesel, Marcel Köppen, ChristophBorchert, Michael Müller, Olaf Spinczyk, and Daniel Lohmann. 2020. *From Global to Local Quiescence: Wait-Free Code Patching of Multi-Threaded Processes*. In Proc. OSDI. 651–666.
